# Sprout
## Aditi Melkote

### Introduction
Over the course of the past year, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in limited social interaction and extended periods of time at home. During this time, I looked to many activities to fill my time, and found that gardening became one of my favourite things to do. Over time, caring for my plants and seeing them grow has become a calming, meaningful and joyful activity for me. Going through social media and speaking to my friends and extended family, I found that lots of them had also developed an interest in gardening as a way of spending time during their lockdowns. 

However, as a complete beginner to gardening, I faced challenges in terms of finding reliable, comprehensive, beginner-friendly plant care information online. This was a concern echoed by some of my friends who also wished to start growing plants, but found the initial step into gardening overwhelming and slightly daunting. These experiences sparked the idea for my project - a plant-care app called “Sprout”, that is focussed on providing a clear, reliable, and easy-to-understand starting point and guidance in gardening for beginners. By providing a clear starting point as well as guidance and next steps, users who are just beginning their gardening journey can have the assurance that they will be carefully and kindly guided through the process, allowing it to be more meaningful and enjoyable for them.
With Sprout, I hope to provide a comprehensive plant-care platform that will be a the first-stop for beginners to gardening.

### Clear design statement 

The issue here is that getting started with gardening as a beginner can be challenging, considering the vast amount of plant care information available online. As a complete beginner, it is difficult to ascertain which sources of information are accurate and reliable. Further, the available information is not always tailored to those with little to no prior knowledge about gardening, making the learning curve steep. This tedious process of scouring multiple websites, trying to consolidate the variety information available online and figure out which plant to grow, and how to care for it, can be tiring and discouraging to beginners. 
The question therefore, is how can the experience of getting started with gardening be improved, such that it is easier, more approachable and ultimately more enjoyable to beginners? 

**The Sprout app aims to enhance the experience of gardening beginners by guiding them through the initial steps, providing reliable, beginner-friendly plant care information within the app itself, and helping users develop the habit of caring for their plants so that they can easily begin and truly enjoy their gardening journey.** 

### Competitor analysis
#### Heuristic Evaluation
The first step in my project was conducting a heuristic evaluation of platforms that were on the same subject as my project. Thus I conducted a heuristics evaluation, based on Nielson’s 10 design heuristics, of the the GardenTags app, and the National Parks (Singapore) website. The purpose of this heuristics evaluation was to understand the features and effectiveness of available gardening resources, how suitable they might be for beginners, and what their shortcomings were. I found that the GardenTags app functioned more like a social media platform, allowing users to create a profile and add their plants to it, post pictures of their plants, and seek out advice from other users through commenting and messaging features. In terms of Nielson's heuristics, it had some issues with respect to intuitive design (#heuristic 2), as well as with flexibility and efficiency (heuristic #7) of features relating to plant search information and general flow of the app. The National Parks website meanwhile served more like a repository for useful gardening-related links, providing access to various documents and PDFs of plant recommendations and plant care tips. The main issues on this site in terms of Nielson's heuristics had to do with a lack of consistency between pages (heuristic #4) [...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/blob/main/README.md)

#### Usability Testing
Performing a usability test as part of the UX design process allows for an analysis of how to easy to use an app/website/platform is for the user, and in turn identify any significant design problems or barriers to a good user experience. Ultimately, the goal of usability testing is to be able to improve interaction with the app from a user's point of view. For my pilot usability test, I tested the GardenTags app for tasks that related to whether the user could access plant care information (through using the Tags and Encyclopaedia features) and plant purchase functionality on the app. Through the pilot test I was able to observe a user contend with the usability issues of the GardenTags app. The test demonstaretd that the user was unsure how to proceed initially with the tasks of searching for the tags and specific plant information, suggesting that the app is not inherently very intuitive. The test also demonstrated that the plant purchase functionality of the app was poorly designed and executed, and left the user unsure of how to proceed. The UT process thus revealed important design flaws to be analysed and improved upon in this app and be taken into account in the design of my app.[...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment-02)

### User research
For the contextual enquiry process, the research methods I chose were interview and participatory observation. Participatory observation involved observing the user perform a task, with the user thinking out loud as they did, and me asking questions regarding their choices and actions when necessary. Specifically through this process, I wanted to learn how the user would go about gathering information if they wanted to start gardening themselves, and what kinds of information they would be looking for. In order to do so, I asked the user what they would do if they were a beginner at gardening and wanted to get started, and observed what they did, paying particular attention to how they gathered information on this topic (such as which website/app/other platforms or media they used), and what specific information they looked for. As I observed the user make certain choices regarding what they searched for, I asked them questions to understand their reasoning and thought process. I also asked some follow-up questions to understand the user's satisfaction with their search, about what next steps the user would take, and finally some questions about what frustrations they faced during the task and what difficulties they perceived affected people who want to get into gardening. 
The main insight I got from this processs had to do with some of the specific concerns and questions the user mentioned when looking for gardening information - they specifically mentioned lack of reliable information relating to growing plants in their climate, and the lack of direct, clear instructions for growing plants. The contextual inquiry process thus gave me a greater understanding of the user's concerns, their search patterns, and thought process when looking for gardening information, providing valuable insight into what I should keep in mind when designing features in my app. [...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment_03)

### UX storytelling
UX storytelling is a means by which to understand how users interact with a product, and see things from the user's perspective. This process involves creating personas of potential users of the product in order to understand and develop emapthy for users' goals and challenges, their expectations of the product, what purpose they want it to fulfil in their lives, all of which will allow us to introduce or improve upon features to enhance their user experience accordingly. In my target demographic (gardening beginners; age range :teens, 20-30,40 year olds; familiar with technology), I developed two personas and their scenarios - (1) an extremely busy but forgetful university student Madeleine, who wants to grow plants to spruce up her dorm room and make it feel more relaxing, and (2)lonely photographer Ciaran, who is struggling with depression and has been advised by his therapist to grow plants as a soothing activity. Both personas primarily encompass individuals who are beginners to gardening or have a little prior experience, are teenagers or individuals in their 20s or 30s, have some experience with using apps and technology such that they would prefer to learn about track plant care on an app, have specific individual requirements when it comes to growing plants, and want a solution that provides clear and personalised plant-care guidance. [...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment_04)

This is an example of one of the personas, Madeleine Maung:


### Wireframe and graphic design element variation [assignment06 + part of 07]
Based on my prior heuristic evaluation and usability testing of a similar gardening app (GardenTags), interview and contextual inquiry of a user in my target demographic, and the personas and scenarios created, the features which I developed and tested using this low-fidelity prototype are - (1)receive personalised recommendations on which plants to grow; (2) Access plant care information (how many times to water plants, what fertiliser to add, how much sunlight they need, troubleshooting and faqs) for chosen plants; and (3) set up plant care tasks for chosen plants. Through this low-fidelity prototype, I wanted to test whether the features I came up with were easy to use, functional, and relevant to target users. [...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment_05)

### Low-fidelity prototype (wireflow, assignment06)
The purpose of the low-fidelity prototype is start coming up with the potential wirefrmaes and wireflow of the various features in the app, and check to see if they are logical and functional. Thus, through my low-fidelity prototype, I wanted to test whether the features I came up with were easy to use, functional, and relevant to target users. 

[...read more](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment_05)
Summary and link to the sketches (may contains the multiple versions and evaluation history)



### High-fidelity prototype (functional/interactive prototype, assignment08)
Summary statement and link to or an embedded prototype

[Read more about High-fidelity prototype here](https://github.com/aditimel/DH110-Aditi_Melkote/tree/main/assignment_06)

### Optional evaluation and revision history 
Including cognitive walkthrough; impression test, accessibility audit, usability testing), per each summary and link to the notes (when you share the video or other detailed evidences, I will notify you when you can make the contents private as soon as your work is graded)

### Pitch video 

### Conclusion: what did you learn throughout the process?
