# Assignment 2: Pilot Usability Testing

## DH110, Aditi Melkote

### Introduction
GardenTags is an app used within the gardening community for the purpose of connecting with other gardeners, serving as a platform for gardeners to share their experiences and seek advice about cultivating plants of all kinds. The app functions both as a social media platform as well as an educational platform - it allows users to set up profiles, post pictures and interact through features such as likes and comments, while also providing users the ability to gain more detailed information about plant varieties and their growth.

Performing a usability test for this app will allow me to analyse how to easy to use the app is, and in turn identify any significant design problems or barriers to a good user experience. Ultimately, the goal of usability testing is to be able to improve interaction with the app from a user's point of view. The usability test will require the user to perform a series of short tasks and think/talk out loud as they do. The session will be video-recorded, so that the user's live experience and inputs while using the app can be used for future analysis and improvement of the app interface.

For the GardenTags app, my heuristic evaluation revealed some issues that I decided to test through this usability testing. Firstly, the process of searching for tags was not very intuitive, as the "Tags" tab was separated from the tag search functionality. This could cause confusion and waste time. As a result my first task requires the user to navigate the tag search system within the app. Another issue with the app is that of accessibility - the use of the plant search and encyclopedia function is very limited to users who do not have a premium subscription to the app. As a supposedly educational interface, the app allows for very limited access to key information on plant care and growth for regular users, which decreases accessibility and interest in its use. The second task will require the user to contend with the lack of key information about growing plants that this app fails to provide. The next issue with the app has to do with lack of error prevention in the plant purchase functionality - the app allows users to look at each other's plant wishlists, and provides the option to buy plants on the wishlist. However, it consistently navigates to a blank page with no information upon selecting the purchase option (in the form of a trolley icon). This can be frustrating and misleading to the user. As a result my third task requires users to experience this plant purchase function on app. 

The usability testing was performed in a quiet room in my apartment using an iPad for the user to interact with the app. The screen-recording of thes survey along with video was done on a laptop using QuickTime Player and Photobooth respectively. This test was a pilot test, performed to test the setting and the usability testing materials

The process of testing involved the following steps: the participant was given an introduction, asked to provide informed consent, which was followed by some background questions, a pre-test questionnaire, the three tasks, followed by the post-test questionnaire, SUS questionnaire, product satisfaction card, and demographic data questions. The usability test was designed to measure the ease of use of the app's interfaces and functionalities, their accessibility, learnability, frequency of use, consistency in content and organisation, and the user's feelings after using the app. Most of these were measured using the 7-point Likert scale.

## Usability testing materials
The usability materials can be accessed using [this link](https://forms.gle/zsaZ6vbeV67m6Mgt5)

## Pilot Testing Video
The pilot test video can be accessed using [this link](https://some.where/your-url-here)

## Reflection

Through the pilot test I was able to observe a user contend with the usability issues of the GardenTags app. The test demonstrated that the plant purchase functionality of the app was poorly designed and executed, and left the user unsure of how to proceed. The user also was unsure how to proceed initially with the tasks of searching for the tags and specific plant information, suggesting that the app is not inherently very intuitive. In general, there was mutual trust and comfort between the user and myself, the moderator. Towards the end of the session, the user reported having a fairly good experience with the app, commenting that the aesthetic was pleasant. A notable design issue the user brought up was the lack of a “home” button in the app interface, and how it hindered their navigation of the app. This was something I had noticed before the usability testing, so the UT process has revealed an important design flaw to be analysed and improved upon in this app.

With respect to being a moderator, an issue that came up during the testing was that I found it was hard to remain patient and wait for the user to figure out how to use the app. On reflection, this taught me that remaining patient as a moderator is very important to ensuring that the usability testing process accurately reflects the user’s experience of learning how to use the app. Rushing the user or being overly involved as a moderator could hinder their authentic experience of using the app, which would in turn produce less reliable, less accurate, and ultimately less useful results. My main takeaway for next time is that I will resolve to be more patient, and not react too quickly if I see the user is struggling or taking too long, and instead give them some time and the opportunity to ask for help.
